>> Will Sentance: We are now gonna be
the developers on this computer writing
JavaScript code after turning node
on by writing the terminal node,
turning on the node engine that
includes turn on the JavaScript engine.
We're then gonna be saving
JavaScript code into a file that
we're gonna run in this
node application here.
And they're going to be testing what,
hopefully, we're gonna open a socket in
our computer on the network card
to listen for inbound requests.
Do we need another computer
to send those messages?
No, we're gonna go on the same computer,
open the web browser, use this built-in
special pseudo domain name, that's gonna
send a message right to our own computer.
We're gonna listen on the right port, and
we're gonna send it to the right port, and
we're gonna start writing code.
Okay, now the code is
at bit.ly/femnode.
You are and you're gonna go to that,
download the zip file,
open it, make sure you've installed Node.
Please go to Node.org, probably.
[LAUGH] [INAUDIBLE] Search Node on Google,
download it, install it,
then download the zip file,
open it, it's a folder.
First, open the readme,
open the readme and
start following the instructions in there.
You're going to be building
out this code here
to be able to send back the right data
to your client, which is also you.
There we go.
We’ve got to do it in pairs.
I’m not going to dwell on how to do pair
programming but here is the essence of it.
Yes, I have thoughts on this.
Pair programming is two of you
working from the same machine,
one of you interpreting
the challenges being posed and
offering an overall strategy
to how to solve it.
You might need to go to documentation
to understand what's being asked better
to come up with a strategy.
But your partner, she or
he has their hands on the keyboard and
they're going to interpret your
overall strategy into actual code.
It's remarkably effective,
people, for so many reasons.
One, when we are solo learning,
we found the two bad traps.
One, researching way too much, we want to
read everything before we write any code.
We want to build a total understanding
of something before you write any code.
You may be able to tell
which one I'm prone to do.
Or with a person who just grabbed
snippets of code to make it work and
have no idea how it's working.
Our job as developers is to be a bit of
both of those for the rest of our careers.
But we want to train ourselves to
land in the middle whenever we're
learning a new thing and
the best way to do that is pairing.
Let's say we've got Zach and
Sarah Rose pairing.
Sarah Rose is our navigator, she's looking
at the prompt and figuring out what
is being asked, and she's giving
Zach an overall code strategy.
She can't wonder off to read for
three hours, he's sitting there waiting.
But nor can she just give him a snippet of
stack overflow because he wants to
know kind of how to do it and why.
So she's got to give a precise strategy.
Fantastic for getting you right in the
right balance between making it work and
understanding it all.
But on top of that is so
many more benefits of pair programming.
Two, Sarah Rose's technical communication,
that means her way of
verbalizing the code that she thinks
Zach should write, has to be exemplary.
She has to be able to communicate to
Zach such that he understands exactly
what she's asking him to do.
Because she can't say, Zach, no, sorry.
What I meant was [SOUND] move
your hands up, typy-type.
She can't do that.
She's not allowed to touch the keyboard.
And now, you may think, it's not that
interesting, why do I need to ask you?
If you can communicate so
well that Zach can implement his code
from your communication, you have
a golden scenario for a senior developer.
Mid-level, junior developer,
can take any new feature, build it,
if they've seen the technology before.
Mid-level developer, any new feature,
build it, even if they haven't
seen the technology before.
Senior developer take any
new feature on the app and
enable others to build
it by explaining and
communicating how to solve it, even if
they've not seen the feature before.
It is a key senior developer
characteristic to be
able to communicate code and
strategy effectively, very powerful.
Final reason I love pair programming.
If Sarah Rose notices that
Zach's doing something wrong,
he missed the semi colon or he missed
the curly brace, she doesn't tell him.
She lets it happen.
They press run.
They see the error.
She now knows what the error is and
they're gonna debug it together.
And as the best pair programming partner,
she's gonna kinda lead him to it.
For the first time,
an error is not this mystery.
She knows what the mistake is.
So when she sees the unexpected token,
rather than going, what the hell?
Why would you, also, these error names?
What do I do?
She knows that he missed a curly brace.
So she goes,
that's why it's saying unexpected token
closing parenthesis because he's
missing an earlier open curly brace,
so that's what unexpected token means.
Suddenly, error messages become
enhancers rather than confusers.
Really, really effective.
Okay, there we go, navigator driver
switchover after 5, 10 minutes.
That's it.
Take it away, folks.
Any other questions on pairing?
Those are the key things.
One other thing for
technical communication.
Your job, Sarah Rose,
is give an overall strategy, but also,
you want to then give line by line,
not word for word.
Not saying, right the word function, and
now the name of the function
in parenthesis.
You're gonna say, declare a function.
But you all are gonna give a line by
line strategy to execute the challenge.
And if you hit a block, encourage your
partner to verbalize their confusion or
you to verbalize your confusion with,
here's what we expected to happen,
we hope the function
would return our tweets.
Here's what actually happened,
it returned undefined.
Here's what we suspect
might be the reason.
Here's what we're gonna try
to see if we can adjust it.
Here's what we're console log to
sort of introspect the function.
And now,
we can start taking that next step.
Still doesn't work, follow the same
process of debugging again, and again, and
again, communicating
that debugging each time.